		

Introduction To API

So everyone who is related to the software industry must have heard the term API once in his lifetime.

If you go and google the definition of API you will get a developer friendly definition, but not a beginner friendly definition.

What is API ??

Let's discuss the functioning of restaurants and weather forecasting apps and flightbooking apps in detail before actually learning
what API is .

1. When we go to restaurant all our communication regarding food, payments ,or any other talk takes place with the waiter. Actually
the waiter is the intermediate between the restaurant's kitchen and the management facility. For ordering food we don't need to go to
kitchen and ask what is avilable and what is not. The waiter will tell us everything about the menu and whatever instructions we want
to give to the kitchen are given via the waiter. So we don't need to do anything rather than talking to the waiter. 

2. We have weather forecasting apps within our mobile. How are they working. Some people say that they have sent satellites with 
temperature sensors installed on them, and via the satellites we receive information. But we have millions of weather forecasting apps
so is everyone sending their own satellites or only the meteorological department has send the satellite and rest everyone is just using
the data they are providing. Yaa This is the actual way of working of these apps. They are receiving data from the ones who are ready to
provide data.

3. Whenever we book a flight ticket through a 3rd party app which is not actually an airline like Goibibo. How are they able to tell in which
airlines seats are available. Actually they have collaborated with the airlines and the airlines have given them the permission to use their
database for your apps working.

So from all the above examples it is very clear that we are just using someone's work for our apps working.

API which stands for Application Programming Interface is the prewritten code by some authority and which is used by some other
organisation just for their benifit, and so that they will not be forced to create that particular functionality.

API allows us to use the database of that organisation and send GET request to their database as well as to reflect changes in them we can
also send the POST requests to them.

These API connects lot of things together. Sometimes we allow users to login with google so that we won't have the headache to maintain
that persons data rather google will do that for me and whenever i will ask google for its data, it will give data. This functionality is
achieved by using Google Login API.

We can also create our own API so that some people could benifit with it. Also when we are working on a project , one person is working
on frontend, someone on backend but independently. So how will frontend developer work in coordination with backend person. This is
by making use of API's. The backend engineer will create an API which will be called by frontend engineer just to retreive data from it and
display that data in whatsoever format he wants to.

So In Todays Time Working With API's has become must.

 
